Takeown

Allows an administrator to recover access to a file that previously was denied 
by making the administrator the owner of the file.

Syntax

takeown [/s Computer [/u [Domain\User [/p [Password]]]] /f FileName [/a] [/r] [/d {Y | N}]

Parameters

/sComputer

Specifies the name or IP address of a remote computer (do not use backslashes). 
The default is the local computer. This parameter applies to all of files and 
folders specified in the command.

/uDomain\User

Runs the script with the permissions of the specified user account. The default 
is system permissions.

/p [Password]

Specifies the password of the user account that is specified in the /u 
parameter.

/fFileName

Specifies the file name or directory name pattern. You can use the wildcard 
character "*" in specifying the pattern. You can also use ShareName\FileName.

/a

Gives ownership to the administrators group instead of the current user.

/r

Performs recursive operation on all files in the specified directory and 
subdirectories.

/d {Y | N}

Default prompt used when the current user does not have permissions to view 
folders within a directory. Use Y to take ownership and N to suppress the 
confirmation prompt.

Remarks
	

To perform this procedure, you must be a member of the Administrators group on 
the local computer, or you must have been delegated the appropriate authority. 
If the computer is joined to a domain, members of the Domain Admins group might 
be able to perform this procedure. As a security best practice, consider using 
Run as to perform this procedure.

This command is typically used in batch files.
	
Using the /s, /u, and /p command-line options The /u and /p command-line options 
are available only when you use /s. You must use /p with /u to provide the 
user's password.

If /a is not specified then file ownership is given to the user who is currently 
logged on to the computer.

Mixed patterns using the question mark (?) and the wildcard character (*) is not 
supported.
	
If you install a Windows Server 2003 operating system on a computer with another 
Windows Server 2003 operating system already installed and then attempt to 
delete it, you cannot delete the entire directory. One of the hidden 
directories, named \Installer, contains some .msi and .ico files that are 
locked, and you have to format the drive to delete them. This is because the 
Windows Server 2003 operating systems apply security attributes to the file so 
that the only the System account of the previous installation can access the 
files. Even an administrator of this computer cannot reset these permissions. 
You must run takeown to delete these files.

After deleting the lock with takeown, you might have to use Windows Explorer or 
cacls to give you full permissions to the files and directories before you can 
delete them. For more information about cacls, see Related Topics. 


Examples

To take ownership of a file using the name pattern Lostfile, type:

takeown /f lostfile